Now we're going to take another step towards calculus.
So far, you've seen how he can look at
one journey at different resolutions or time intervals.
In the early example we first used a one-hour time interval,
and then 20 minutes and then so.
And everytime we decreased the time interval we got closer to the full story.
And you've also seen how you can use these measurements of
position and time to calculate average speed.
But if you think about it that's a pretty weird way to figure out your speed in a car.
If you want and how fast you're going,
you can always just look at a speedometer because a speedometer measures speed directly,
and the speed that a speedometer shows is your instantaneous speed.
It's how fast you're going at the instant that you look at the dashboard,
and speedometers are very useful but for
the purposes of this lesson and learning something about calculus,
the question on what you to think about and explore the next notebook is this.
We know that it's possible to measure instantaneous speed with a speedometer,
but is it possible to calculate
instantaneous speed using the position and time measurements we've been discussing?
If it is, then how?
And if not, what can we do to approximate instantaneous speed as closely as possible?